---
title: "Exordium - 1.1.0-1.19.4 - Fabric released"
date: 2023-05-28T17:18:54.214032Z
draft: false
project: "exordium"
mcversion: "1.19.4"
modversion: "1.1.01.19.4"
tags: ["exordium", "fabric", "Modrinth"]
externalurl: "https://modrinth.com/mod/DynYZEae/version/BDuZe3FM"
summary: "Click to get this release"
---
# [Exordium](/project/exordium) - 1.1.0-1.19.4 - Fabric released
Download [this](https://modrinth.com/mod/DynYZEae/version/BDuZe3FM) version or check out the [Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/mod/DynYZEae) page!

Changelog: This is a beta release. Please report issues on Github, as the 1.20 version will be based on this work.

This version entirely rewrites how the buffering works. The main goal was mod compatibility and logic improvements. Instead of buffering the entire UI x times per second, each UI component gets buffered on its own. Instead of having fixed updates, the UI part updates only on changes. Each UI part has the following settings:
- An on/off option, so parts can be fully excluded
- Max FPS. Set a custom fps cap for each part
- Force Blend tries some trickery to potentially get other mods to work correct
- Force Updates will re-render this UI part at the max FPS, instead of only during changes. This helps when mods play animations that Exordium doesn't know about.

The following UI parts get buffered by Exordium. Everything else like minimaps or currently the player list will render like without Exordium:
- Chat
- The debug overlay F3
- Hotbar
- Experience bar/Level
- Health/Food/Armor bar
- Scoreboard

From my testing, performance should be about the same or slightly higher, assuming no extra hud elements are present.
Tested with Sodium+Iris and ImmediatelyFast(thanks for the help). Still not compatible with VulkanMod, and wasn't able to get Optifabric to work currently(switch to Sodium+Iris), but I assume it should work.

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/tr7zw/Exordium/compare/1.0.3-1.19.4...1.1.0-1.19.4

Autogenerated post!
